README.md, before:

# Authentication and Testing Sprint Challenge

**Read these instructions carefully. Understand exactly what is expected _before_ starting this Sprint Challenge.**

This challenge allows you to practice the concepts and techniques learned over the past sprint and apply them in a concrete project. This sprint explored **Authentication and Testing**. During this sprint, you studied **authentication, JSON web tokens, unit testing, and backend testing**. In your challenge this week, you will demonstrate your mastery of these skills by creating **a dad jokes app**.

This is an individual assessment. All work must be your own. Your challenge score is a measure of your ability to work independently using the material covered through this sprint. You need to demonstrate proficiency in the concepts and objectives introduced and practiced in preceding days.

You are not allowed to collaborate during the sprint challenge. However, you are encouraged to follow the twenty-minute rule.

## Introduction

Dad jokes are all the rage these days! In this challenge, you will build a real wise-guy application.

Users must be able to call the `[POST] /api/auth/register` endpoint to create a new account, and the `[POST] /api/auth/login` endpoint to get a token.

We also need to make sure nobody without the token can call `[GET] /api/jokes` and gain access to our dad jokes.

We will hash the user's password using `bcryptjs`, and use JSON Web Tokens and the `jsonwebtoken` library.

## Instructions

### Task 1: Project Set Up

- [ ] Create a forked copy of this project.
- [ ] Clone your OWN version of the repository (Not Lambda's by mistake!).
- [ ] Create a new branch: `git checkout -b <firstName-lastName>`.
- [ ] Implement the project on your newly created `<firstName-lastName>` branch, committing changes regularly.
- [ ] Push commits: `git push origin <firstName-lastName>`

### Task 2: Project Requirements

Your finished project must include all of the following requirements (further instructions are found inside each file):

- [ ] An authentication workflow with functionality for account creation and login, implemented inside `./api/auth/auth-router.js`.
- [ ] Middleware used to restrict access to resources from non-authenticated requests, implemented inside `./api/middleware/restricted.js`.
- [ ] A minimum of 2 tests per API endpoint, implemented inside `./api/server.test.js`. The `package.json` includes the "test" script.

**Notes:**

- You are welcome to create additional modules for middlewares or data models, but **do not move or rename existing files** or folders.
- Do not alter your `package.json` file except for installing libraries. The "test" script has been added for you.
- The database already has the `users` table, but if you run into issues, the migration is available.
- In your solution, it is essential that you follow best practices and produce clean and professional results.
- Schedule time to review, refine, and assess your work and perform basic professional polishing including spell-checking and grammar-checking on your work.
- It is better to submit a challenge that meets MVP than one that attempts too much and does not.

### Task 3: Stretch Goals

**IMPORTANT:** Work on stretch goals in a **new branch**. You can branch off `<firstName-lastName>` by executing `git checkout -b stretch`.

After finishing your required elements, you can push your work further. These goals may or may not be things you have learned in this module but they build on the material you just studied. Time allowing, stretch your limits and see if you can deliver on the following optional goals:

- [ ] Write at least 4 tests per endpoint.
- [ ] Extract user validation into a separate method and write unit tests for it.
- [ ] Use a separate testing database for the endpoint tests.
- [ ] Implement authentication using sessions instead of tokens.

## Submission format

There are two possible ways to submit this project to Canvas. Lambda Staff will let you know which one applies:

1. Submitting a pull request to merge `<firstName-lastName>` branch into `main`.
2. Setting up your fork settings on Github to submit via Codegrade by pushing commits to your `<firstName-lastName>` branch.

## Interview Questions

Be prepared to demonstrate your understanding of this week's concepts by answering questions on the following topics.

1. Differences between using _sessions_ or _JSON Web Tokens_ for authentication.
2. What does `bcryptjs` do to help us store passwords in a secure manner?
3. How are unit tests different from integration and end-to-end testing?
4. How does _Test Driven Development_ change the way we write applications and tests?

Commit message:

START: Checking CodeGrade set-up, answered interview questions.

README.md, after:

# Authentication and Testing Sprint Challenge

**Read these instructions carefully. Understand exactly what is expected _before_ starting this Sprint Challenge.**

This challenge allows you to practice the concepts and techniques learned over the past sprint and apply them in a concrete project. This sprint explored **Authentication and Testing**. During this sprint, you studied **authentication, JSON web tokens, unit testing, and backend testing**. In your challenge this week, you will demonstrate your mastery of these skills by creating **a dad jokes app**.

This is an individual assessment. All work must be your own. Your challenge score is a measure of your ability to work independently using the material covered through this sprint. You need to demonstrate proficiency in the concepts and objectives introduced and practiced in preceding days.

You are not allowed to collaborate during the sprint challenge. However, you are encouraged to follow the twenty-minute rule.

## Introduction

Dad jokes are all the rage these days! In this challenge, you will build a real wise-guy application.

Users must be able to call the `[POST] /api/auth/register` endpoint to create a new account, and the `[POST] /api/auth/login` endpoint to get a token.

We also need to make sure nobody without the token can call `[GET] /api/jokes` and gain access to our dad jokes.

We will hash the user's password using `bcryptjs`, and use JSON Web Tokens and the `jsonwebtoken` library.

## Instructions

### Task 1: Project Set Up

- [*] Create a forked copy of this project.
- [*] Clone your OWN version of the repository (Not Lambda's by mistake!).
- [*] Create a new branch: `git checkout -b <firstName-lastName>`.
- [*] Implement the project on your newly created `<firstName-lastName>` branch, committing changes regularly.
- [*] Push commits: `git push origin <firstName-lastName>`

### Task 2: Project Requirements

Your finished project must include all of the following requirements (further instructions are found inside each file):

- [ ] An authentication workflow with functionality for account creation and login, implemented inside `./api/auth/auth-router.js`.
- [ ] Middleware used to restrict access to resources from non-authenticated requests, implemented inside `./api/middleware/restricted.js`.
- [ ] A minimum of 2 tests per API endpoint, implemented inside `./api/server.test.js`. The `package.json` includes the "test" script.

**Notes:**

- You are welcome to create additional modules for middlewares or data models, but **do not move or rename existing files** or folders.
- Do not alter your `package.json` file except for installing libraries. The "test" script has been added for you.
- The database already has the `users` table, but if you run into issues, the migration is available.
- In your solution, it is essential that you follow best practices and produce clean and professional results.
- Schedule time to review, refine, and assess your work and perform basic professional polishing including spell-checking and grammar-checking on your work.
- It is better to submit a challenge that meets MVP than one that attempts too much and does not.

### Task 3: Stretch Goals

**IMPORTANT:** Work on stretch goals in a **new branch**. You can branch off `<firstName-lastName>` by executing `git checkout -b stretch`.

After finishing your required elements, you can push your work further. These goals may or may not be things you have learned in this module but they build on the material you just studied. Time allowing, stretch your limits and see if you can deliver on the following optional goals:

- [ ] Write at least 4 tests per endpoint.
- [ ] Extract user validation into a separate method and write unit tests for it.
- [ ] Use a separate testing database for the endpoint tests.
- [ ] Implement authentication using sessions instead of tokens.

## Submission format

There are two possible ways to submit this project to Canvas. Lambda Staff will let you know which one applies:

1. Submitting a pull request to merge `<firstName-lastName>` branch into `main`.
2. Setting up your fork settings on Github to submit via Codegrade by pushing commits to your `<firstName-lastName>` branch.

## Interview Questions

Be prepared to demonstrate your understanding of this week's concepts by answering questions on the following topics.

1. Differences between using _sessions_ or _JSON Web Tokens_ for authentication.
- The major differences involve where they're stored, sessions being on the server and JWTs being in the client. Because sessions are on the server, we can do more to protect that information without the user having to worry about it, although the storage usage can add up quickly. On the other hand, JWTs don't require any storage on the server (although it can be done) and can be a bit safer in their own right. Though, if someone gets access to the token, they can use it to perform a cross-origin attack and gain access to user information on sites other than our own. 
2. What does `bcryptjs` do to help us store passwords in a secure manner?
- bcrypt (and other services like it) are used to hash the passwords provided by clients. Doing so is a one-way operation, meaning potential attackers cannot reverse the hashed password and gain access to a user's account.
3. How are unit tests different from integration and end-to-end testing?
- Integration testing checks how different pieces of the same app work and function together; unit testing targets one specific piece of an app to make sure it works; end-to-end testing is a top to bottom, full-spec test meant to check every facet of the application. 
4. How does _Test Driven Development_ change the way we write applications and tests?
- The core of TTD is writing tests _before_ you write code. By doing this, you build a sort of "roadmap" for the app you're trying to create, and can see how functional it is along the way. With TTD, we can make sure everything is passing and functional before we start to refactor and polish our work.
